.TH GOATATTACK-CARGO 6 "March 2023" "goat attack" "Multiplayer shooter utility"
.SH NAME
goatattack-cargo \- packager utility for Goat Attack paks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B goatattack-cargo \fIOPTION\fP \fIPARAMETERS\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cargo is a packager utility to create map packages of own maps and tilesets. The directory structure of the pak file must follow the defined structure, you will find in the source package of Goat Attack in the data/files directory. A created pak file can be placed in the Goat Attack home directory, normally \fI~.goatattack\fP, or in the default directory, normally \fI/usr/share/goattack\fP or \fI/usr/local/share/goatattack\fP. A created pak file has a CRC64 hash, which must match with the hash of client's base.pak. A user's own pak will be sent to the game client, if a client connects to a dedicated server. 
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--pack\fP
put all files located in a specified directory into a package.
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--list\fP
list files in package.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--hash\fP
show hash of a package.
.TP
\fB-x\fP, \fB--extract\fP
extract all files into a specified directory. If directory is omitted, destination is current working directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
goatattack-cargo --pack ~/.goatattack/files mymaps.pak
.br
goatattack-cargo --list mymaps.pak
.br
goatattack-cargo --hash mymaps.pak
.br
goatattack-cargo --extract mymaps.pak ~./goatattack/files
.SH MORE INFORMATIONS
Please read the README file for more informations.
.SH AUTHORS
Goat Attack and its manuals were written by Philippe Widmer <pw@earthwave.ch>, and are licensed under the terms of GPLv3 licenses.
