.TH GOATATTACK 6 "September 2016" "goat attack" "Multiplayer shooter"
.SH NAME
goatattack \- dedicated server for a multiplayer pixel art shooter game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B goatattack
.I conffile
.SH DESCRIPTION
Goat Attack dedicated server for a fast-paced multiplayer pixel art shooter game.
The server uses UDP sockets for communication.
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
Create a configuration file as described below and run the dedicated server with
that configuration file as parameter. You should find a couple of configuration
files in the source package of Goat Attack.
.SS FIELD TYPES
.TP
\fBalphanumeric\fP
This field allows to hold a text.
.TP
\fBnumeric\fP
This field can hold numeric values.
.TP
\fBboolean\fP
This field is a true or false field. You can use \fI0\fP for false/no and \fI1\fP
for true/yes.
.SS VALID FIELDS
.TP
\fBserver_name\fP (required, alphanumeric)
\fIserver_name=schlachttempel DM #1\fP
.br
Sets the name of the dedicated server.
.TP
\fBserver_message\fP (optional, alphanumeric)
\fIserver_message=hello player :)|welcome to schlachttempel DM #1.\fP
.br
If a player connects to your server, this greeting message will be shown. Use the pipe
symbol to break lines.
.TP
\fBserver_password\fP (optional, numeric)
\fIserver_password=12345\fP
.br
You can protect your server with a password. The ingame server list will mark your
server as password protected.
.TP
\fBnum_players\fP (required, numeric)
\fInum_players=12\fP
.br
Define here, how many players can connect to your server.
.TP
\fBport\fP (required, numeric)
\fIport=25111\fP
.br
Your dedicated server will listen on this port.
.TP
\fBmaster_server\fP (optional, alphanumeric)
\fImaster_server=master.goatattack.net\fP
.br
Fill out this field, if you want to register your dedicated server to the master
server. The official master is \fImaster.goatattack.net\fR.
.TP
\fBhold_disconnected_player\fP (optional, boolean)
\fIhold_disconnected_player=1\fP
.br
If a player disconnects (in due to network lags) and reconnects again, the score is
preserved. The server will hold the scores for about 60 seconds.
.TP
\fBreconnect_kills\fP (optional, numeric)
\fIreconnect_kills=10\fP
.br
Here you can define a reconnect penalty, how many kills the reconnecting player will get.
.TP
\fBshuffle_maps\fP (optional, boolean)
\fIshuffle_maps=1\fP
.br
Set to 1 (true), if you want to shuffle the map rotation list.
.TP
\fBmap_count\fP (required, numeric)
\fImap_count=2\fP
.br
Define, how many maps in your rotation list are.
.TP
\fBnameX\fP (required, alphanumeric)
\fIname0=dm1\fP
.br
Define the name of the map (do not use the map description). Set X to the index of the
current map, zero based.
.TP
\fBwarmupX\fP (optional, numeric)
\fIwarmup0=30\fP
.br
If you want to begin with a warm up, define it in seconds. Set X to the index of the
current map, zero based.
.TP
\fBdurationX\fP (required, numeric)
\fIduration0=10\fP
.br
Define the duration in minutes. Set X to the index of the current map, zero based.
.TP
\fBlogfile\fP (optional, alphanumeric)
\fIlogfile=/var/log/serverstat.log\fP
.br
Define a log output file for creating statistics and reports.
.TP
\fBclan_red_name\fP (optional, alphanumeric)
\fIclan_red_name=sharks\fP
.br
Define the name of the red team.
.TP
\fBblue_red_name\fP (optional, alphanumeric)
\fIblue_red_name=jets\fP
.br
Define the name of the blue team.
.TP
\fBadmin_password\fP (optional, alphanumeric)
\fIadmin_password=master\fP
.br
Define the password to authenticate to manage the dedicated server. You can enter the
server mode using the chat window. To submit server command, use the slash before
commands, eg. /op master.
.TP
\fBfriendly_fire_alarm\fP (optional, boolean)
\fIfriendly_fire_alarm=1\fP
.br
Set to 1 (true), if you want to hear an alarm if a team mate is shot. Set to 0 to turn
the alarm off.
.SH SERVER COMMANDS
The server commands only work on a dedicated server. Servers created in a game play do
not accept server commands.
.SS COMMANDS
.TP
\fB/op\fP \fI<password>\fP
Become operator/administrator.
.TP
\fB/deop\fP
Exit operator mode.
.TP
\fB/kick\fP \fI<player_name>\fP
Kick immediately a player from the arena.
.TP
\fB/next\fP
Select the next map in the map rotation list.
.TP
\fB/next\fP
Select the next map in the map rotation list.
.TP
\fB/map\fP \fI<map_name> <warmup> <duration>\fP
Load map, warmup are in seconds, duration in minutes.
.TP
\fB/reload\fP
Reloads the server configuration file.
.TP
\fB/get\fP \fI<variable>\fP
Shows the server configuration variable.
.TP
\fB/set\fP \fI<variable> <value>\fP
Sets the server configuration variable.
.TP
\fB/reset\fP \fI<variable>\fP
Clears the server configuration variable.
.TP
\fB/save\fP
Saves the server configuration file.
.SH MORE INFORMATIONS
Please read the README file or visit \fIwww.goatattack.net\fR for more informations.
.SH AUTHORS
Goat Attack and its manuals were written by Philippe Widmer <pw@earthwave.ch>, and are licensed under the terms of GPLv3 licenses.
